README.md, before:

# Getting Started ⚡️ Bolt for JavaScript

## Step 9 - handle Paddle payment subscription events

Prerequisites:
- Create Paddle account
- Create products and price plans in Paddle
- Configure checkout form on the website

Install Paddle SDK to handle subscription events. Reference: https://github.com/PaddleHQ/paddle-node-sdk

```zsh
npm install @paddle/paddle-node-sdk
```

Add new HTTP handler for Paddle webhook events in serverless.yml

Add new environment variables to .env files
```zsh
PADDLE_API_KEY=
PADDLE_WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY=
```

Add new webhook URL under Paddle Vendor Dashboard -> Developer Tools -> Notifications
```zsh
https://<your-ngrok-id>.ngrok-free.app/paddle/webhooks
```

Go to website pricing page and make a subscription using checkout form

Check logs locally and verify that Paddle webhook events are received by the app

## Step 8 - public installation

Install Serverless-http library to wrap Express app into Serverless app. Reference: https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-http
```zsh
npm install serverless-http
```

Add 2 new environment variables to .env files
They are located on App Settings page -> Basic Information -> App Credentials 
```zsh
SLACK_CLIENT_ID=
SLACK_CLIENT_SECRET=
```
Remove SLACK_BOT_TOKEN from .env files

Add 2 new HTTP handlers for slack app installation and OAuth flow in serverless.yml

Define new AWS DynamoDB table in serverless.yml to store installation data

Add Redirect URL under Slack Settings -> OAuth & Permissions -> Redirect URLs
For local development app, use ngrok URL
```zsh
https://<your-ngrok-id>.ngrok.io/slack/oauth_redirect
```
For production app, use AWS API Gateway URL
```zsh
https://<your-api-id>.execute-api.<your-region>.amazonaws.com/dev/slack/oauth_redirect
```

To install app to workspace, open URL in browser
```zsh
https://<your-api-id>.execute-api.<your-region>.amazonaws.com/dev/slack/install
```

## Step 7 - make separate environment for local and production applications

Important
New commands with stage (environments) name
- Start Serverless offline - local bot instance for testing 
```zsh
serverless offline --noPrependStageInUrl --stage dev-local
```

- Deploy app to AWS Lambda - production bot instance
```zsh
serverless deploy --stage dev
```

Install dotenv plugin to read environment variables from .env file, not from system environment variables
```zsh
serverless plugin install -n serverless-dotenv-plugin
```

Populate .env file with environment variables:
- .env.dev - Production bot instance "CodeReviewReminder"
- .env.local - Local bot instance "CodeReviewReminderDev"

## Step 6 - save config to DynamoDB

Download DynamoDB local
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/DynamoDBLocal.DownloadingAndRunning.html

Start DynamoDB local instance from folder where you downloaded DynamoDB local
```zsh
java -Djava.library.path=./DynamoDBLocal_lib -jar DynamoDBLocal.jar -sharedDb
```

Install AWS NoSQL Workbench
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/workbench.settingup.html

Install official DynamoDB client library. Reference: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb
```zsh
npm install @aws-sdk/client-dynamodb
```

Install official DynamoDB library with handy data models. Reference: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb
```zsh
npm install @aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb
```

Start DynamoDB locally
```zsh
java -Djava.library.path=./DynamoDBLocal_lib -jar DynamoDBLocal.jar -sharedDb
```

Get user info by user ID
https://api.slack.com/methods/users.info

New scope required to get user info
https://api.slack.com/scopes/users:read

## Step 5 - user onboarding

Block Kit Builder - UI constructor
https://app.slack.com/block-kit-builder

Event when user or bot joined channel
https://api.slack.com/events/member_joined_channel

Event when user opens bot's App Home
https://api.slack.com/events/app_home_opened

API method to get bot auth data
https://api.slack.com/methods/auth.test

## Step 4
How to search message in conversation
https://api.slack.com/methods/conversations.history

List schedule messages in chat
https://api.slack.com/methods/chat.scheduledMessages.list

Delete schedule message
https://api.slack.com/methods/chat.deleteScheduledMessage

Event when user adds reaction to message
https://api.slack.com/events/reaction_added

## Step 3
Install moment-timezone
```zsh
 npm install moment-timezone
```

## Step 2
Export new environment variable
```zsh
export SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=<your-signing-secret>
```
install Serverless dependencies
```zsh  
npm install --save-dev serverless-offline
```

Run app locally
- Start Serverless offline
```zsh
serverless offline --noPrependStageInUrl
```

- Start ngrok
```zsh
ngrok http 3000
```

Deploy app to AWS Lambda
```zsh
serverless deploy
```

## Overview

> Slack app example from 📚 [Getting started with Bolt for JavaScript tutorial][1]

This is a Slack app built with the [Bolt for JavaScript framework][2] that showcases
responding to events and interactive buttons.

## Running locally

### 0. Create a new Slack App

- Go to https://api.slack.com/apps
- Click **Create App**
- Choose a workspace
- Enter App Manifest using contents of `manifest.yaml`
- Click **Create**

Once the app is created click **Install to Workspace**
Then scroll down in Basic Info and click **Generate Token and Scopes** with both scopes

### 1. Setup environment variables

```zsh
# Replace with your bot and app token
export SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=<your-bot-token> # from the OAuth section
export SLACK_APP_TOKEN=<your-app-level-token> # from the Basic Info App Token Section
```

### 2. Setup your local project

```zsh
# Clone this project onto your machine
git clone https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-js-getting-started-app.git

# Change into the project
cd bolt-js-getting-started-app/

# Install the dependencies
npm install
```

### 3. Start servers
```zsh
npm run start
```

### 4. Test

Go to the installed workspace and type **Hello** in a DM to your new bot. You can also type **Hello** in a channel where the bot is present

## Contributing

### Issues and questions

Found a bug or have a question about this project? We'd love to hear from you!

1. Browse to [slackapi/bolt-js/issues][4]
1. Create a new issue
1. Select the `[x] examples` category

See you there and thanks for helping to improve Bolt for everyone!

[1]: https://slack.dev/bolt-js/tutorial/getting-started
[2]: https://slack.dev/bolt-js/
[3]: https://slack.dev/bolt-js/tutorial/getting-started#setting-up-events
[4]: https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-js/issues/new

Commit message:

Step 10: Add paid features to the bot
Define new DynamoDB table to store subscription information.
Check if user has an active subscription before scheduling reminders.
Match Paddle subscription and Slack workspace when user opens home tab.
 Find Slack user in workspace by email.

README.md, after:

# Getting Started ⚡️ Bolt for JavaScript

## Step 10 - add paid features to the Slack bot

Define new DynamoDB table to store user subscription data

New scope to find user by email:
https://api.slack.com/scopes/users:read.email

Lookup user info by user email
https://api.slack.com/methods/users.lookupByEmail

## Step 9 - handle Paddle payment subscription events

Prerequisites:
- Create Paddle account
- Create products and price plans in Paddle
- Configure checkout form on the website

Install Paddle SDK to handle subscription events. Reference: https://github.com/PaddleHQ/paddle-node-sdk

```zsh
npm install @paddle/paddle-node-sdk
```

Add new HTTP handler for Paddle webhook events in serverless.yml

Add new environment variables to .env files
```zsh
PADDLE_API_KEY=
PADDLE_WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY=
```

Add new webhook URL under Paddle Vendor Dashboard -> Developer Tools -> Notifications
```zsh
https://<your-ngrok-id>.ngrok-free.app/paddle/webhooks
```

Go to website pricing page and make a subscription using checkout form

Check logs locally and verify that Paddle webhook events are received by the app

## Step 8 - public installation

Install Serverless-http library to wrap Express app into Serverless app. Reference: https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-http
```zsh
npm install serverless-http
```

Add 2 new environment variables to .env files
They are located on App Settings page -> Basic Information -> App Credentials 
```zsh
SLACK_CLIENT_ID=
SLACK_CLIENT_SECRET=
```
Remove SLACK_BOT_TOKEN from .env files

Add 2 new HTTP handlers for slack app installation and OAuth flow in serverless.yml

Define new AWS DynamoDB table in serverless.yml to store installation data

Add Redirect URL under Slack Settings -> OAuth & Permissions -> Redirect URLs
For local development app, use ngrok URL
```zsh
https://<your-ngrok-id>.ngrok.io/slack/oauth_redirect
```
For production app, use AWS API Gateway URL
```zsh
https://<your-api-id>.execute-api.<your-region>.amazonaws.com/dev/slack/oauth_redirect
```

To install app to workspace, open URL in browser
```zsh
https://<your-api-id>.execute-api.<your-region>.amazonaws.com/dev/slack/install
```

## Step 7 - make separate environment for local and production applications

Important
New commands with stage (environments) name
- Start Serverless offline - local bot instance for testing 
```zsh
serverless offline --noPrependStageInUrl --stage dev-local
```

- Deploy app to AWS Lambda - production bot instance
```zsh
serverless deploy --stage dev
```

Install dotenv plugin to read environment variables from .env file, not from system environment variables
```zsh
serverless plugin install -n serverless-dotenv-plugin
```

Populate .env file with environment variables:
- .env.dev - Production bot instance "CodeReviewReminder"
- .env.local - Local bot instance "CodeReviewReminderDev"

## Step 6 - save config to DynamoDB

Download DynamoDB local
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/DynamoDBLocal.DownloadingAndRunning.html

Start DynamoDB local instance from folder where you downloaded DynamoDB local
```zsh
java -Djava.library.path=./DynamoDBLocal_lib -jar DynamoDBLocal.jar -sharedDb
```

Install AWS NoSQL Workbench
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/workbench.settingup.html

Install official DynamoDB client library. Reference: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb
```zsh
npm install @aws-sdk/client-dynamodb
```

Install official DynamoDB library with handy data models. Reference: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb
```zsh
npm install @aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb
```

Start DynamoDB locally
```zsh
java -Djava.library.path=./DynamoDBLocal_lib -jar DynamoDBLocal.jar -sharedDb
```

Get user info by user ID
https://api.slack.com/methods/users.info

New scope required to get user info
https://api.slack.com/scopes/users:read

## Step 5 - user onboarding

Block Kit Builder - UI constructor
https://app.slack.com/block-kit-builder

Event when user or bot joined channel
https://api.slack.com/events/member_joined_channel

Event when user opens bot's App Home
https://api.slack.com/events/app_home_opened

API method to get bot auth data
https://api.slack.com/methods/auth.test

## Step 4
How to search message in conversation
https://api.slack.com/methods/conversations.history

List schedule messages in chat
https://api.slack.com/methods/chat.scheduledMessages.list

Delete schedule message
https://api.slack.com/methods/chat.deleteScheduledMessage

Event when user adds reaction to message
https://api.slack.com/events/reaction_added

## Step 3
Install moment-timezone
```zsh
 npm install moment-timezone
```

## Step 2
Export new environment variable
```zsh
export SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=<your-signing-secret>
```
install Serverless dependencies
```zsh  
npm install --save-dev serverless-offline
```

Run app locally
- Start Serverless offline
```zsh
serverless offline --noPrependStageInUrl
```

- Start ngrok
```zsh
ngrok http 3000
```

Deploy app to AWS Lambda
```zsh
serverless deploy
```

## Overview

> Slack app example from 📚 [Getting started with Bolt for JavaScript tutorial][1]

This is a Slack app built with the [Bolt for JavaScript framework][2] that showcases
responding to events and interactive buttons.

## Running locally

### 0. Create a new Slack App

- Go to https://api.slack.com/apps
- Click **Create App**
- Choose a workspace
- Enter App Manifest using contents of `manifest.yaml`
- Click **Create**

Once the app is created click **Install to Workspace**
Then scroll down in Basic Info and click **Generate Token and Scopes** with both scopes

### 1. Setup environment variables

```zsh
# Replace with your bot and app token
export SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=<your-bot-token> # from the OAuth section
export SLACK_APP_TOKEN=<your-app-level-token> # from the Basic Info App Token Section
```

### 2. Setup your local project

```zsh
# Clone this project onto your machine
git clone https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-js-getting-started-app.git

# Change into the project
cd bolt-js-getting-started-app/

# Install the dependencies
npm install
```

### 3. Start servers
```zsh
npm run start
```

### 4. Test

Go to the installed workspace and type **Hello** in a DM to your new bot. You can also type **Hello** in a channel where the bot is present

## Contributing

### Issues and questions

Found a bug or have a question about this project? We'd love to hear from you!

1. Browse to [slackapi/bolt-js/issues][4]
1. Create a new issue
1. Select the `[x] examples` category

See you there and thanks for helping to improve Bolt for everyone!

[1]: https://slack.dev/bolt-js/tutorial/getting-started
[2]: https://slack.dev/bolt-js/
[3]: https://slack.dev/bolt-js/tutorial/getting-started#setting-up-events
[4]: https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-js/issues/new
